>> Erik Reinert: To recap really quickly,
really fast, what have we done so far,
right?
We came out of stage one with
a deployed environment and
a process that allows us to ship code.
Easiest way to put it.
We went into stage two, we realized, okay,
this is great that we have this set up,
but it's kind of specific.
We could use some improving here.
We knew a lot of painpoints.
Again, we all went through the pain points
of having to remember the commands and
setting up the environment and
da, da, da, da, da.
I just want to reiterate that a lot
of this isn't just creating cloud
infrastructure and
building things in the cloud.
A lot of creating deployments and
infrastructure and
stuff like that is also improving your
environment and what you're working in,
making it so that developers can move fast
but also still do complex operations.
That's really the problem
you're trying to solve.
If a dev is just like you said earlier,
is it really just this?
Yeah, it really is just that.
Because that's the point, right?
Is to make it so that if a dev
is just brand new to a project,
they don't necessarily need to know what's
Dockers running underneath the hood or
anything like that.
You've abstracted that
problem away from them.
They just need to know the make
commands that are available.
That's it, right?
And so again, even though it was
such a challenge in the first part,
we've now solved that problem and you
could see the value that that provides.
Like, that was the goal of that whole
experiment was to show you the value that
that provides so
that you walk away with it.
So we added a make file,
we added migrations, right?
We said, okay, well, you know, copying and
pasting schema into a query document or
query, you know, input box, and
then hoping to God it works, maybe isn't
the best approach, maybe we should like
use a tool that does this really well.
And so we added migrations as well.
Two, like, nothing related to
infrastructure, whatever, but two really
huge wins that are going to make it so
that we ship code faster, right?
Improving the docker file.
That improvement is really
focused on cost, right?
Like, how much are you
spending in storage and ECR?
It's a lot easier to store a 90 megabyte
image than a 300 megabyte image or
a 500 megabyte image, right?
You're cutting down those storage
costs when you make that.
On top of it, the other changes we did
around, you know, making it cache in
the specific places that we wanted it to
will make your developers move faster.
Make Your pipelines go faster, right?
So these are small changes and
they might not be fully noticeable on
the value that you're getting out of them.
But again,
we didn't make any massive changes and
we're getting a lot of value out of it so
that we can grow and move faster.
We still have a lot of like manual
process, we still have to run the commands
every time we want to do testing, and
we don't really want to do that, right?
Like, we really want to make it so that
like, we just make our changes, push it,
and then something does those
rudimentary steps for us.
And that's really where
GitHub Actions comes into play.
Now I will say one thing, which is
don't abuse your CI pipelines, please.
For the people who manage them,
please don't abuse your pipelines.
What do I mean by that?
What I mean is that things that
you can run locally that will save
you time rather than just
expecting it to run in CI.
Try and do that.
You know what I mean?
Like, if you can run
your unit tests locally,
of course there are going to be
unit tests that are run in CI.
But like, maybe don't just blindly commit
your code and hope that your tests work.
Like maybe actually run the test locally,
right?
If you wanna talk about
real impactful changes,
it's stuff like that that's gonna save
you money and save you time in CI.
I know we have stuff that happens
at my company where people kind
of blindly push code and
I will see fail, fail, fail, fail,
fail, fixed problem success,
you know, and like that's.
It's just like there are times
where I feel like I have to go to
the developer and be like, hey man,
I get what you're doing, but like,
just run the test locally before
it fails on lint nine times, okay?
Like, just don't just be like,
fix, push, fix, push.
Like try and understand what CI is doing.
So that's our goal.
Our goal is just to put the stuff in CI
that we don't really wanna hav run twice.
So what I'm going to do first is,
I'm going to create a new directory.
I'm gonna say mkdir.p.github/workflows.
So I'm actually gonna make
a directory in a directory, and
then I'm gonna create a file
called github.workflows,
build and deploy.yaml, right?
So I'm going to create a new file and
then I'm going to open up that file so
I have a blank YAML file here.
Show of hands,
how many of you worked with YAML before?
Okay, all of you.
Fantastic.
YAML is the standard language that we do.
All of our configuring in
Terraform uses hcl, but
most of it's like JSON, YAML,
HCL and stuff like that.
So get comfortable with YAML because
you're definitely going to be using it
quite a bit.
So at the top of the file we are going
to add the name of our workflow.
We're going to add the name of the actual
workflow that we are creating.
In this case,
it's called Build and Deploy.
It's the same name of our file.
The next thing underneath we're going
to add to that is what is called our
triggers.
So this is a GitHub Action specific thing,
but
this tells GitHub Actions what exactly
should tell it to run pipelines.
So there are really two things that
are telling it to run pipelines.
The first one is a pull request and the
second one is a push to the main branch.
So that means that if I open up a pull
request anywhere in this repository or, or
if I push to the main branch
anywhere in this repository,
then I should get a pipeline.
Effectively the next thing I want to
do is I want to add our very first job.
We are going to take
the Docker approach here.
There are multiple ways of doing this.
I could make a job that installs Go and
then runs the go build on the actual
runner itself for the job.
But that Go version may change.
There may be other things that happen on
the runner that are impacting the build.
This is how Docker can be
really helpful because again,
we've already got
the Make Build Image command.
We're already using Docker to do it.
Might as well just use Docker in
our pipelines to build the image.
And we're shipping a container, so
there's really no need to try and
run Go directly in the run or
in the build.
What we're really going to do is we're
going to tell it that our build stage
builds us a image.
Actually, that's all I'm going to do for
now.
Just to get this started,
I'm going to do that.
And the reason why is because
that is all you need really
to start to get a pipeline running.
I commit my code and
I'm going to push it up.
Now again, if you want to access
this code, go check it out.
But you can see here that
I pushed my code and hey,
look at that,
I got a little orange circle.
We're actually cooking now.
So if we go in here, look at that.
GitHub Actions is running the exact same
command that I run to build my container.
Now, if we stopped here, the value we
get out of this is every time we push
code to our repo, we should know
that the make build command works.
So that's nice.
Good to know that at least every time we
make a change that the build, you know,
the build command works.
But there may be more things we want,
right?
Like we kind of want to know that
the migrations run successfully, right?
We want it to also, like, do a deployment
for us and all this other stuff.